DEPLOY.md, before:

# Deployment Guide

## Environment variables

Copy `.env.example` to `.env` and supply the following values:

| Variable | Purpose |
| --- | --- |
| `ALPHA_VANTAGE_KEY` | API key for market data |
| `SNS_TOPIC_ARN` | Optional SNS topic for alerts |
| `TELEGRAM_BOT_TOKEN` | Optional Telegram bot token for alerts |
| `TELEGRAM_CHAT_ID` | Telegram chat for alerts |
| `API_TOKEN` | Token securing sensitive routes |
| `OPENAI_API_KEY` | Optional key for OpenAI features |
| `DATA_BUCKET` | S3 bucket holding account data when deploying the backend. May also be supplied via the script's `-DataBucket` parameter |
| `METADATA_BUCKET` | Bucket containing instrument metadata |
| `METADATA_PREFIX` | Prefix within the metadata bucket |
| `GOOGLE_AUTH_ENABLED` | Toggle Google sign‑in |
| `GOOGLE_CLIENT_ID` | OAuth client ID when Google sign‑in is enabled |

Install dependencies:

```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt -r requirements-dev.txt
```

## Build the frontend

```bash
cd frontend
npm install
npm run build
cd ..
```

## Deploy with AWS CDK

Run the helper script from the repository root to bootstrap the environment.
When deploying the backend, provide the S3 bucket for account data either via
the `-DataBucket` parameter or by setting `DATA_BUCKET`:

```powershell
# Deploy backend and frontend stacks
./deploy-to-AWS.ps1 -Backend -DataBucket my-bucket

# Deploy only the frontend stack
./deploy-to-AWS.ps1
```

The script changes into the `cdk/` directory, runs `cdk bootstrap` if
necessary, then deploys `BackendLambdaStack` and `StaticSiteStack` when
`-Backend` is specified.

Alternatively, run the commands manually:

```bash
cd cdk
cdk bootstrap   # once per account/region
DEPLOY_BACKEND=false cdk deploy StaticSiteStack
# or deploy backend and frontend together. Supply the name of your
# data bucket either via environment variable:
DATA_BUCKET=my-data-bucket DEPLOY_BACKEND=true cdk deploy BackendLambdaStack StaticSiteStack
# or as a CDK context parameter:
DEPLOY_BACKEND=true cdk deploy BackendLambdaStack StaticSiteStack -c data_bucket=my-data-bucket
```

## CloudFront cache invalidation

If static files are updated without redeploying the stack, invalidate the distribution cache:

```bash
aws cloudfront create-invalidation --distribution-id <DIST_ID> --paths "/*"
```

Commit message:

chore: move cdk synth output outside repo

DEPLOY.md, after:

# Deployment Guide

## Environment variables

Copy `.env.example` to `.env` and supply the following values:

| Variable | Purpose |
| --- | --- |
| `ALPHA_VANTAGE_KEY` | API key for market data |
| `SNS_TOPIC_ARN` | Optional SNS topic for alerts |
| `TELEGRAM_BOT_TOKEN` | Optional Telegram bot token for alerts |
| `TELEGRAM_CHAT_ID` | Telegram chat for alerts |
| `API_TOKEN` | Token securing sensitive routes |
| `OPENAI_API_KEY` | Optional key for OpenAI features |
| `DATA_BUCKET` | S3 bucket holding account data when deploying the backend. May also be supplied via the script's `-DataBucket` parameter |
| `METADATA_BUCKET` | Bucket containing instrument metadata |
| `METADATA_PREFIX` | Prefix within the metadata bucket |
| `GOOGLE_AUTH_ENABLED` | Toggle Google sign‑in |
| `GOOGLE_CLIENT_ID` | OAuth client ID when Google sign‑in is enabled |

Install dependencies:

```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt -r requirements-dev.txt
```

## Build the frontend

```bash
cd frontend
npm install
npm run build
cd ..
```

## Deploy with AWS CDK

Run the helper script from the repository root to bootstrap the environment.
When deploying the backend, provide the S3 bucket for account data either via
the `-DataBucket` parameter or by setting `DATA_BUCKET`:

CDK writes synthesized templates to `../.cdk.out`, a directory outside the
repository root that is ignored by git.

```powershell
# Deploy backend and frontend stacks
./deploy-to-AWS.ps1 -Backend -DataBucket my-bucket

# Deploy only the frontend stack
./deploy-to-AWS.ps1
```

The script changes into the `cdk/` directory, runs `cdk bootstrap` if
necessary, then deploys `BackendLambdaStack` and `StaticSiteStack` when
`-Backend` is specified.

Alternatively, run the commands manually:

```bash
cd cdk
cdk bootstrap   # once per account/region
DEPLOY_BACKEND=false cdk deploy StaticSiteStack
# or deploy backend and frontend together. Supply the name of your
# data bucket either via environment variable:
DATA_BUCKET=my-data-bucket DEPLOY_BACKEND=true cdk deploy BackendLambdaStack StaticSiteStack
# or as a CDK context parameter:
DEPLOY_BACKEND=true cdk deploy BackendLambdaStack StaticSiteStack -c data_bucket=my-data-bucket
```

## CloudFront cache invalidation

If static files are updated without redeploying the stack, invalidate the distribution cache:

```bash
aws cloudfront create-invalidation --distribution-id <DIST_ID> --paths "/*"
```
