docs/README.md, before:

# AllotMint 🌱💷
[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/leonarduk/allotmint/branch/main/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/leonarduk/allotmint)
*Tend your family’s investments like an allotment. Harvest smarter wealth.*

AllotMint is a private, server-less web app that turns real-world family
investing into a visually engaging “allotment” you tend over time. It enforces
strict compliance rules (30‑day minimum holding, 20 trades/person/month), runs
entirely on AWS S3 + Lambda, and keeps your AWS and Python skills sharp.

For setup and usage instructions, see the [USER_README](USER_README.md).

---

## MVP Scope
1. **Portfolio Viewer** – individual / adults / whole family.
2. **Compliance Engine** – 30‑day sell lock & monthly trade counter.
3. **Stock Screener v1** – PEG < 1, P/E < 20, low D/E, positive FCF.
4. **Scenario Tester (Lite)** – single‑asset price shocks.
5. **Lucy DB Pension Forecast** – inflation‑linked income overlay.

---

## Tech Stack

| Layer    | Choice                                       |
|----------|----------------------------------------------|
| Frontend | React + TypeScript → S3 + CloudFront         |
| Backend  | AWS Lambda (Python 3.12) behind API Gateway  |
| Storage  | S3 JSON / CSV (no RDBMS)                     |
| IaC      | AWS CDK (Py)                                 |

The backend, CI/CD workflows, and tests all target Python 3.12.

## Watchlist

The repo includes a lightweight Yahoo Finance watchlist. Run it locally with:

```
# backend
uvicorn app:app --reload --port 8000 --host 0.0.0.0

# frontend
npm i && npm run dev
```

## Scenario Tester

Simulate historical shocks against your portfolio. `apply_historical_event`
calculates holding returns over several horizons from the event date. When a
holding lacks data for a given horizon, returns fall back to the event's
`proxy_index` via `load_meta_timeseries_range`.

## Importing Transactions

The backend can parse transaction exports from supported providers. Upload a
file and specify the provider name:

```
curl -F provider=degiro -F file=@transactions.csv \
     http://localhost:8000/transactions/import
```

For convenience, use the helper script:

```
python scripts/import_transactions.py degiro path/to/transactions.csv
```

---

## Backend dependencies

Runtime Python dependencies live in `requirements.txt`. Development tooling
(CDK, Playwright, moviepy, etc.) is listed in `requirements-dev.txt`. Install
both when working locally:

```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt -r requirements-dev.txt
```

Workflows and helper scripts install from these files, so update them when new
packages are needed.

### Environment variables

Sensitive settings are loaded from environment variables rather than
`config.yaml`. Create a `.env` file with the helper script:

```bash
python scripts/setup_env.py
```

This copies `.env.example` to `.env` and prompts for required values such as
`ALPHA_VANTAGE_KEY` and `JWT_SECRET`. You can then edit `.env` to set optional
values like:

```
SNS_TOPIC_ARN=arn:aws:sns:us-east-1:123456789012:allotmint   # optional
TELEGRAM_BOT_TOKEN=123456789:ABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVWXYZ      # optional
TELEGRAM_CHAT_ID=123456789                                  # optional
DATA_ROOT=./data                                             # base directory for application data
GOOGLE_AUTH_ENABLED=true                                    # enable Google sign-in
GOOGLE_CLIENT_ID=your-client-id.apps.googleusercontent.com   # Google OAuth client (required when enabling)
```

`DATA_ROOT` overrides the `paths.data_root` value in `config.yaml`, allowing the
backend to load data from a different directory.

If `GOOGLE_AUTH_ENABLED` is `true`, you must create an OAuth 2.0 Client ID in the [Google Cloud Console](https://developers.google.com/identity/gsi/web/guides/get-google-api-clientid) and supply it via the `GOOGLE_CLIENT_ID` environment variable or the `google_client_id` entry in `config.yaml`.

Alternatively export variables in your shell. Unset variables simply disable
their corresponding integrations.

When `GOOGLE_AUTH_ENABLED` is true, the backend requires a valid
`GOOGLE_CLIENT_ID`. Create an OAuth client in the
[Google Cloud Console](https://console.cloud.google.com/apis/credentials), then
set the client ID via the `GOOGLE_CLIENT_ID` environment variable or
`config.yaml`. With both enabled, the backend accepts Google ID tokens at
`/token/google` and only issues API tokens for emails discovered in the
accounts directory.

### Push notification keys

Web push uses VAPID credentials which can be generated and persisted to AWS
Parameter Store via `scripts/setup_vapid_keys.py`. The script creates public and
private key parameters (`/allotmint/vapid/public` and
`/allotmint/vapid/private` by default) when they are missing.

### Alert storage configuration

User alert thresholds and web push subscriptions persist to a tiny JSON object
whose location is configurable via environment variables. Each URI may target a
local file, an S3 object or an AWS Systems Manager Parameter Store entry.

| Variable | Description | Default |
|----------|-------------|---------|
| `ALERT_THRESHOLDS_URI` | Location of threshold configuration. | `file://data/alert_thresholds.json` |
| `PUSH_SUBSCRIPTIONS_URI` | Storage for web push subscriptions. | `file://data/push_subscriptions.json` |

URIs may use the following schemes:

* `file:///path/to/file.json` – read/write a local file (useful for tests).
* `s3://bucket/key.json` – store JSON in an S3 object.
* `ssm://parameter-name` – store JSON in AWS Parameter Store.

#### Required IAM permissions

When using AWS backends the executing role must allow:

* **S3** – `s3:GetObject` and `s3:PutObject` on the referenced object.
* **Parameter Store** – `ssm:GetParameter` and `ssm:PutParameter` on the
  parameter name.

### Mobile wrappers

For a more app-like experience on iOS and Android consider building thin
wrappers with [Capacitor](https://capacitorjs.com/) or similar tooling. This
simplifies installation and enables more reliable notifications on mobile
devices.

#### Setup

```bash
npm install
npm run mobile:add          # generates android/ and ios/ projects under mobile/
```

The React frontend is bundled and copied into the native shells with:

```bash
npm run mobile:android      # or: npm run mobile:ios
```

The build reuses the `VITE_VAPID_PUBLIC_KEY` from your `.env` so web push
notifications behave the same inside the Capacitor web view. Native wrappers
use platform channels (Firebase Cloud Messaging on Android and Apple Push
Notification service on iOS) which deliver more reliably than browser-based
VAPID push.

## Page cache

Expensive API routes cache their JSON responses under `data/cache/<page>.json`.
Each request serves the cached payload when it is fresh; on a miss or stale
entry the response is rebuilt, returned to the client and saved in the
background. A lightweight scheduler keeps caches warm by rebuilding them at a
fixed interval.

| Page           | TTL (seconds) |
|----------------|---------------|
| Portfolio views | 300 |
| Screener queries | 900 |

Adjust the `PORTFOLIO_TTL` and `SCREENER_TTL` constants in
`backend/routes/portfolio.py` and `backend/routes/screener.py` to change these
intervals. The cache helpers live in `backend/utils/page_cache.py`.

## FX rate cache & offline mode

FX conversions use daily GBP rates. When `offline_mode: true` in
`config.yaml`, rates are loaded from parquet files under
`data/timeseries/fx/<CCY>.parquet`. Each file must contain `Date` and `Rate`
columns. Populate the cache before going offline:

```bash
python - <<'PY'
from datetime import date
import pandas as pd
from backend.utils.fx_rates import fetch_fx_rate_range

df = fetch_fx_rate_range("USD", "GBP", date(2024,1,1), date.today())
df.to_parquet("data/timeseries/fx/USD.parquet", index=False)
PY
```

If a currency file is missing, `_convert_to_base_currency` falls back to requesting
rates from `fx_proxy_url` configured in `config.yaml`.

## Risk reporting

 The backend exposes [Value at Risk (VaR)](./value_at_risk.md) metrics for each portfolio.

* **Defaults** – 95 % confidence over a 1‑day horizon and 99 % over 10 days.
* **Query** – `GET /var/{owner}?days=30&confidence=0.99` fetches a 30‑day, 99 % VaR.
* **UI** – VaR surfaces alongside portfolio charts on the performance dashboard.

**Assumptions**

* Historical simulation using daily returns from cached price series.
* Results reported in GBP.
* Calculations default to a 365‑day window (`days` parameter).

See [backend/common/portfolio_utils.py](backend/common/portfolio_utils.py) for the return series that feed the calculation
and [backend/common/constants.py](backend/common/constants.py) for currency labels, and the
[VaR documentation](./value_at_risk.md) for methodology.

## Portfolio reports

`GET /reports/{owner}` compiles realized gains, income and performance metrics
for a portfolio. Pass `format=csv` or `format=pdf` to download the report in
your preferred format.

## Local Quick-start

The project is split into a Python FastAPI backend and a React/TypeScript
frontend. The two communicate over HTTP which makes it easy to work on either
side in isolation. Backend runtime options are stored in `config.yaml`:

```yaml
app_env: local
uvicorn_host: 0.0.0.0
uvicorn_port: 8000
reload: true
log_config: backend/logging.ini
```

Adjust these values to change the environment or server behaviour.

Environment-specific CORS whitelists are defined in the same file:

```yaml
cors:
  local:
    - http://localhost:3000
  production:
    - https://app.allotmint.io
```

The list matching `app_env` is applied to the backend's CORS middleware.

Optional frontend tabs can be toggled in `config.yaml` under `ui.tabs`:

```yaml
ui:
  tabs:
    instrument: true
    performance: true
    transactions: true
    screener: true
    trading: true
    timeseries: true
    watchlist: true
    virtual: true
    reports: true
    support: true
```

Setting a tab to `false` removes its menu entry and related links from the UI.

```bash
# clone & enter
git clone git@github.com:leonarduk/allotmint.git
cd allotmint

# set up Python venv for CDK & backend (optional)
python -m venv .venv && source .venv/bin/activate
pip install -r requirements.txt -r requirements-dev.txt

# configure API settings
# (see config.yaml for app_env, uvicorn_host, uvicorn_port, reload and log_config)
./run-local-api.sh    # or use run-backend.ps1 on Windows

# in another shell install React deps and start Vite on :5173
cd frontend
npm install
npm run dev

# visit the app
open http://localhost:5173/
```

- **Authentication**:
  - Set `API_TOKEN` and include it as an `X-API-Token` header in requests, or
  - Leave `API_TOKEN` unset to disable authentication during local development.
  - A previous username/password flow using `OAuth2PasswordRequestForm` has been
    removed. Reintroduce it manually if needed by recreating a login endpoint
    that validates credentials and issues tokens with `create_access_token`.
  See the [Authentication](USER_README.md#authentication) section for details.

## Alerts

Trading alerts support multiple transports that are enabled via environment
variables:

* **AWS SNS** – set ``SNS_TOPIC_ARN`` to publish alerts to an SNS topic using
  ``backend.common.alerts.publish_alert``.
* **Telegram** – provide ``TELEGRAM_BOT_TOKEN`` and ``TELEGRAM_CHAT_ID`` to
  forward alerts to a Telegram chat via ``backend.utils.telegram_utils``.

When several transports are configured, alerts are sent to each of them.

## External data store

Account and instrument files live in a separate data repository. Clone or
sync it alongside the application before running the backend:

```bash
# clone once
git clone git@github.com:your-org/allotmint-data.git data
# pull updates
cd data && git pull
```

### Local development

Point the backend at the checked-out data by setting ``DATA_ROOT`` (or
``accounts_root`` in ``config.yaml``) to the directory path:

```bash
# .env or shell
DATA_ROOT=$(pwd)/data
```

The backend uses this folder when ``config.app_env: local`` or when
``DATA_BUCKET`` is unset. Commit changes to update the data set:

All runtime data now resides in an external S3 bucket instead of the
repository. Sync the contents before starting the backend:

```bash
aws s3 sync s3://$DATA_BUCKET/ data/
```

When running the backend in AWS (``config.app_env: aws``), account and
metadata JSON files are loaded from this bucket.

The local startup scripts (`run-local-api.sh` and `run-backend.ps1`) perform
this sync automatically when `DATA_BUCKET` is set.

```bash
cd data
git add accounts/alice/trades.csv
git commit -m "Update Alice trades"
git push
```

### AWS

When running in AWS (``config.app_env: aws``), account and metadata JSON files
are loaded from S3. Set the following environment variables:

```bash
DATA_BUCKET=allotmint-prod-data
METADATA_BUCKET=allotmint-metadata
METADATA_PREFIX=instruments/
```

The Lambda execution role requires:

* ``s3:ListBucket`` (with a prefix of ``accounts/``) – discover available
  accounts.
* ``s3:GetObject`` on ``accounts/*`` – read account and ``person.json`` files.
* ``s3:PutObject``/``s3:DeleteObject`` on the same paths to push updates.

Instrument metadata resides under ``METADATA_PREFIX`` in ``METADATA_BUCKET``.
To upload new data:

```bash
aws s3 sync data/accounts s3://$DATA_BUCKET/accounts/
```

Uploading requires IAM permissions matching the above ``s3:PutObject`` rules.

### Bucket layout

The S3 bucket mirrors the previous ``data/`` directory:

```
accounts/
cache/
events/
instruments/
metrics/
prices/
timeseries/
transactions/
alert_thresholds.json
jpm.json
scaling_overrides.json
skipped_tickers.log
virtual_portfolios/
```

## Tests

Run Python and frontend test suites with:

```bash
pytest
cd frontend && npm test
```

Some API tests load sample account data from `config.accounts_root` (defaulting
to `data/accounts`). If this directory is absent, the tests are skipped.

The `PY_COV_MIN` environment variable lets you enforce a minimum coverage
percentage during `pytest` runs. Use it together with `PYTEST_ADDOPTS` to pass
the desired threshold to `pytest`:

```bash
PY_COV_MIN=80 PYTEST_ADDOPTS="--cov-fail-under=$PY_COV_MIN" pytest
```

## Error summary helper

An optional `error_summary` section in `config.yaml` stores settings for the
`run_with_error_summary.py` utility. When the field is missing the backend falls
back to an empty mapping so the script can still be used with explicit
arguments. You can capture error lines by running the helper which writes them
to `error_summary.log`. Optionally set a default command in
`config.yaml` under `error_summary.default_command` so the script can run
without CLI arguments:

```yaml
error_summary:
  default_command: ["pytest"]
```

Running `python run_with_error_summary.py` with no arguments will then use the
configured default.

```bash
# example
python run_with_error_summary.py pytest
```


## Trading Agent
Retrieve trade signals through the API:

```bash
curl http://localhost:8000/trading-agent/signals
```

In production, the `price_refresh` Lambda can invoke the agent after updating
prices.

## Deploy to AWS

The project includes an AWS CDK stack that provisions an S3 bucket and
CloudFront distribution for the frontend. To deploy the site:

```bash
# build the frontend assets first
cd frontend
npm install
npm run build
cd ..

# deploy the static site stack only
cd cdk
cdk bootstrap   # only required once per AWS account/region
DEPLOY_BACKEND=false cdk deploy StaticSiteStack

# or include the backend Lambda stack
DEPLOY_BACKEND=true cdk deploy BackendLambdaStack StaticSiteStack
# equivalently: cdk deploy BackendLambdaStack StaticSiteStack -c deploy_backend=true
```

The bucket remains private and CloudFront uses an origin access identity
with Price Class 100 to minimise cost while serving the content over HTTPS.

### Backend data bucket

Runtime portfolio data lives in a separate S3 bucket referenced by the
`DATA_BUCKET` environment variable. Files are stored under the `accounts/`
prefix:

- `accounts/<owner>/trades.csv`
- `accounts/<owner>/<account>.json`
- `accounts/<owner>/person.json`
- Instrument metadata files under `METADATA_PREFIX` (default `instruments/`) in the bucket specified by `METADATA_BUCKET`.

Lambdas that read portfolio information require `s3:GetObject` permission for
these paths. A minimal IAM policy statement is:

```json
{
  "Effect": "Allow",
  "Action": ["s3:GetObject"],
  "Resource": "arn:aws:s3:::YOUR_DATA_BUCKET/accounts/*"
}
```

### GitHub Actions Deployment

The CI workflow in `.github/workflows/deploy-lambda.yml` uses GitHub's
OpenID Connect (OIDC) provider to assume an IAM role at deploy time. To
enable this:

1. Create an IAM role with permissions to deploy the CDK stack.
2. Add a trust policy that allows the GitHub OIDC provider to assume the
   role. A minimal example is:

   ```json
   {
     "Version": "2012-10-17",
     "Statement": [
       {
         "Effect": "Allow",
         "Principal": {"Federated": "arn:aws:iam::YOUR_ACCOUNT_ID:oidc-provider/token.actions.githubusercontent.com"},
         "Action": "sts:AssumeRoleWithWebIdentity",
         "Condition": {
           "StringEquals": {
             "token.actions.githubusercontent.com:sub": "repo:YOUR_ORG/YOUR_REPO:ref:refs/heads/main"
           }
         }
       }
     ]
   }
   ```
3. Store the role ARN in the repository as the `AWS_ROLE_TO_ASSUME` secret
   and set `AWS_REGION` as needed.

Remove any long-term `AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID` and `AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY`
secrets, as they are no longer required.


## 🎬 Generating the Overview Video

Install the video dependencies first. The `requirements-dev.txt` file includes
`moviepy` and `gTTS`:

```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt -r requirements-dev.txt
```

Save an image named `presenter.png` in the `scripts` directory, then run:

```bash
python scripts/make_allotmint_video.py
```

The script will produce `allotmint_video.mp4` in the repository root.

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License. See [LICENSE](LICENSE) for details.

Commit message:

Add black and ruff tooling configuration

docs/README.md, after:

# AllotMint 🌱💷
[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/leonarduk/allotmint/branch/main/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/leonarduk/allotmint)
*Tend your family’s investments like an allotment. Harvest smarter wealth.*

AllotMint is a private, server-less web app that turns real-world family
investing into a visually engaging “allotment” you tend over time. It enforces
strict compliance rules (30‑day minimum holding, 20 trades/person/month), runs
entirely on AWS S3 + Lambda, and keeps your AWS and Python skills sharp.

For setup and usage instructions, see the [USER_README](USER_README.md).

---

## MVP Scope
1. **Portfolio Viewer** – individual / adults / whole family.
2. **Compliance Engine** – 30‑day sell lock & monthly trade counter.
3. **Stock Screener v1** – PEG < 1, P/E < 20, low D/E, positive FCF.
4. **Scenario Tester (Lite)** – single‑asset price shocks.
5. **Lucy DB Pension Forecast** – inflation‑linked income overlay.

---

## Tech Stack

| Layer    | Choice                                       |
|----------|----------------------------------------------|
| Frontend | React + TypeScript → S3 + CloudFront         |
| Backend  | AWS Lambda (Python 3.12) behind API Gateway  |
| Storage  | S3 JSON / CSV (no RDBMS)                     |
| IaC      | AWS CDK (Py)                                 |

The backend, CI/CD workflows, and tests all target Python 3.12.

## Watchlist

The repo includes a lightweight Yahoo Finance watchlist. Run it locally with:

```
# backend
uvicorn app:app --reload --port 8000 --host 0.0.0.0

# frontend
npm i && npm run dev
```

## Scenario Tester

Simulate historical shocks against your portfolio. `apply_historical_event`
calculates holding returns over several horizons from the event date. When a
holding lacks data for a given horizon, returns fall back to the event's
`proxy_index` via `load_meta_timeseries_range`.

## Importing Transactions

The backend can parse transaction exports from supported providers. Upload a
file and specify the provider name:

```
curl -F provider=degiro -F file=@transactions.csv \
     http://localhost:8000/transactions/import
```

For convenience, use the helper script:

```
python scripts/import_transactions.py degiro path/to/transactions.csv
```

---

## Backend dependencies

Runtime Python dependencies live in `requirements.txt`. Development tooling
(CDK, Playwright, moviepy, etc.) is listed in `requirements-dev.txt`. Install
both when working locally:

```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt -r requirements-dev.txt
```

Workflows and helper scripts install from these files, so update them when new
packages are needed.

### Code quality tooling

Format Python code with [Black](https://black.readthedocs.io/) and lint it with
[Ruff](https://docs.astral.sh/ruff/). After installing the development
dependencies, run:

```bash
black .
ruff check .
```

`black` rewrites files in-place, while `ruff check` reports lint issues (use
`ruff check --fix` to automatically apply safe fixes).

### Environment variables

Sensitive settings are loaded from environment variables rather than
`config.yaml`. Create a `.env` file with the helper script:

```bash
python scripts/setup_env.py
```

This copies `.env.example` to `.env` and prompts for required values such as
`ALPHA_VANTAGE_KEY` and `JWT_SECRET`. You can then edit `.env` to set optional
values like:

```
SNS_TOPIC_ARN=arn:aws:sns:us-east-1:123456789012:allotmint   # optional
TELEGRAM_BOT_TOKEN=123456789:ABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVWXYZ      # optional
TELEGRAM_CHAT_ID=123456789                                  # optional
DATA_ROOT=./data                                             # base directory for application data
GOOGLE_AUTH_ENABLED=true                                    # enable Google sign-in
GOOGLE_CLIENT_ID=your-client-id.apps.googleusercontent.com   # Google OAuth client (required when enabling)
```

`DATA_ROOT` overrides the `paths.data_root` value in `config.yaml`, allowing the
backend to load data from a different directory.

If `GOOGLE_AUTH_ENABLED` is `true`, you must create an OAuth 2.0 Client ID in the [Google Cloud Console](https://developers.google.com/identity/gsi/web/guides/get-google-api-clientid) and supply it via the `GOOGLE_CLIENT_ID` environment variable or the `google_client_id` entry in `config.yaml`.

Alternatively export variables in your shell. Unset variables simply disable
their corresponding integrations.

When `GOOGLE_AUTH_ENABLED` is true, the backend requires a valid
`GOOGLE_CLIENT_ID`. Create an OAuth client in the
[Google Cloud Console](https://console.cloud.google.com/apis/credentials), then
set the client ID via the `GOOGLE_CLIENT_ID` environment variable or
`config.yaml`. With both enabled, the backend accepts Google ID tokens at
`/token/google` and only issues API tokens for emails discovered in the
accounts directory.

### Push notification keys

Web push uses VAPID credentials which can be generated and persisted to AWS
Parameter Store via `scripts/setup_vapid_keys.py`. The script creates public and
private key parameters (`/allotmint/vapid/public` and
`/allotmint/vapid/private` by default) when they are missing.

### Alert storage configuration

User alert thresholds and web push subscriptions persist to a tiny JSON object
whose location is configurable via environment variables. Each URI may target a
local file, an S3 object or an AWS Systems Manager Parameter Store entry.

| Variable | Description | Default |
|----------|-------------|---------|
| `ALERT_THRESHOLDS_URI` | Location of threshold configuration. | `file://data/alert_thresholds.json` |
| `PUSH_SUBSCRIPTIONS_URI` | Storage for web push subscriptions. | `file://data/push_subscriptions.json` |

URIs may use the following schemes:

* `file:///path/to/file.json` – read/write a local file (useful for tests).
* `s3://bucket/key.json` – store JSON in an S3 object.
* `ssm://parameter-name` – store JSON in AWS Parameter Store.

#### Required IAM permissions

When using AWS backends the executing role must allow:

* **S3** – `s3:GetObject` and `s3:PutObject` on the referenced object.
* **Parameter Store** – `ssm:GetParameter` and `ssm:PutParameter` on the
  parameter name.

### Mobile wrappers

For a more app-like experience on iOS and Android consider building thin
wrappers with [Capacitor](https://capacitorjs.com/) or similar tooling. This
simplifies installation and enables more reliable notifications on mobile
devices.

#### Setup

```bash
npm install
npm run mobile:add          # generates android/ and ios/ projects under mobile/
```

The React frontend is bundled and copied into the native shells with:

```bash
npm run mobile:android      # or: npm run mobile:ios
```

The build reuses the `VITE_VAPID_PUBLIC_KEY` from your `.env` so web push
notifications behave the same inside the Capacitor web view. Native wrappers
use platform channels (Firebase Cloud Messaging on Android and Apple Push
Notification service on iOS) which deliver more reliably than browser-based
VAPID push.

## Page cache

Expensive API routes cache their JSON responses under `data/cache/<page>.json`.
Each request serves the cached payload when it is fresh; on a miss or stale
entry the response is rebuilt, returned to the client and saved in the
background. A lightweight scheduler keeps caches warm by rebuilding them at a
fixed interval.

| Page           | TTL (seconds) |
|----------------|---------------|
| Portfolio views | 300 |
| Screener queries | 900 |

Adjust the `PORTFOLIO_TTL` and `SCREENER_TTL` constants in
`backend/routes/portfolio.py` and `backend/routes/screener.py` to change these
intervals. The cache helpers live in `backend/utils/page_cache.py`.

## FX rate cache & offline mode

FX conversions use daily GBP rates. When `offline_mode: true` in
`config.yaml`, rates are loaded from parquet files under
`data/timeseries/fx/<CCY>.parquet`. Each file must contain `Date` and `Rate`
columns. Populate the cache before going offline:

```bash
python - <<'PY'
from datetime import date
import pandas as pd
from backend.utils.fx_rates import fetch_fx_rate_range

df = fetch_fx_rate_range("USD", "GBP", date(2024,1,1), date.today())
df.to_parquet("data/timeseries/fx/USD.parquet", index=False)
PY
```

If a currency file is missing, `_convert_to_base_currency` falls back to requesting
rates from `fx_proxy_url` configured in `config.yaml`.

## Risk reporting

 The backend exposes [Value at Risk (VaR)](./value_at_risk.md) metrics for each portfolio.

* **Defaults** – 95 % confidence over a 1‑day horizon and 99 % over 10 days.
* **Query** – `GET /var/{owner}?days=30&confidence=0.99` fetches a 30‑day, 99 % VaR.
* **UI** – VaR surfaces alongside portfolio charts on the performance dashboard.

**Assumptions**

* Historical simulation using daily returns from cached price series.
* Results reported in GBP.
* Calculations default to a 365‑day window (`days` parameter).

See [backend/common/portfolio_utils.py](backend/common/portfolio_utils.py) for the return series that feed the calculation
and [backend/common/constants.py](backend/common/constants.py) for currency labels, and the
[VaR documentation](./value_at_risk.md) for methodology.

## Portfolio reports

`GET /reports/{owner}` compiles realized gains, income and performance metrics
for a portfolio. Pass `format=csv` or `format=pdf` to download the report in
your preferred format.

## Local Quick-start

The project is split into a Python FastAPI backend and a React/TypeScript
frontend. The two communicate over HTTP which makes it easy to work on either
side in isolation. Backend runtime options are stored in `config.yaml`:

```yaml
app_env: local
uvicorn_host: 0.0.0.0
uvicorn_port: 8000
reload: true
log_config: backend/logging.ini
```

Adjust these values to change the environment or server behaviour.

Environment-specific CORS whitelists are defined in the same file:

```yaml
cors:
  local:
    - http://localhost:3000
  production:
    - https://app.allotmint.io
```

The list matching `app_env` is applied to the backend's CORS middleware.

Optional frontend tabs can be toggled in `config.yaml` under `ui.tabs`:

```yaml
ui:
  tabs:
    instrument: true
    performance: true
    transactions: true
    screener: true
    trading: true
    timeseries: true
    watchlist: true
    virtual: true
    reports: true
    support: true
```

Setting a tab to `false` removes its menu entry and related links from the UI.

```bash
# clone & enter
git clone git@github.com:leonarduk/allotmint.git
cd allotmint

# set up Python venv for CDK & backend (optional)
python -m venv .venv && source .venv/bin/activate
pip install -r requirements.txt -r requirements-dev.txt

# configure API settings
# (see config.yaml for app_env, uvicorn_host, uvicorn_port, reload and log_config)
./run-local-api.sh    # or use run-backend.ps1 on Windows

# in another shell install React deps and start Vite on :5173
cd frontend
npm install
npm run dev

# visit the app
open http://localhost:5173/
```

- **Authentication**:
  - Set `API_TOKEN` and include it as an `X-API-Token` header in requests, or
  - Leave `API_TOKEN` unset to disable authentication during local development.
  - A previous username/password flow using `OAuth2PasswordRequestForm` has been
    removed. Reintroduce it manually if needed by recreating a login endpoint
    that validates credentials and issues tokens with `create_access_token`.
  See the [Authentication](USER_README.md#authentication) section for details.

## Alerts

Trading alerts support multiple transports that are enabled via environment
variables:

* **AWS SNS** – set ``SNS_TOPIC_ARN`` to publish alerts to an SNS topic using
  ``backend.common.alerts.publish_alert``.
* **Telegram** – provide ``TELEGRAM_BOT_TOKEN`` and ``TELEGRAM_CHAT_ID`` to
  forward alerts to a Telegram chat via ``backend.utils.telegram_utils``.

When several transports are configured, alerts are sent to each of them.

## External data store

Account and instrument files live in a separate data repository. Clone or
sync it alongside the application before running the backend:

```bash
# clone once
git clone git@github.com:your-org/allotmint-data.git data
# pull updates
cd data && git pull
```

### Local development

Point the backend at the checked-out data by setting ``DATA_ROOT`` (or
``accounts_root`` in ``config.yaml``) to the directory path:

```bash
# .env or shell
DATA_ROOT=$(pwd)/data
```

The backend uses this folder when ``config.app_env: local`` or when
``DATA_BUCKET`` is unset. Commit changes to update the data set:

All runtime data now resides in an external S3 bucket instead of the
repository. Sync the contents before starting the backend:

```bash
aws s3 sync s3://$DATA_BUCKET/ data/
```

When running the backend in AWS (``config.app_env: aws``), account and
metadata JSON files are loaded from this bucket.

The local startup scripts (`run-local-api.sh` and `run-backend.ps1`) perform
this sync automatically when `DATA_BUCKET` is set.

```bash
cd data
git add accounts/alice/trades.csv
git commit -m "Update Alice trades"
git push
```

### AWS

When running in AWS (``config.app_env: aws``), account and metadata JSON files
are loaded from S3. Set the following environment variables:

```bash
DATA_BUCKET=allotmint-prod-data
METADATA_BUCKET=allotmint-metadata
METADATA_PREFIX=instruments/
```

The Lambda execution role requires:

* ``s3:ListBucket`` (with a prefix of ``accounts/``) – discover available
  accounts.
* ``s3:GetObject`` on ``accounts/*`` – read account and ``person.json`` files.
* ``s3:PutObject``/``s3:DeleteObject`` on the same paths to push updates.

Instrument metadata resides under ``METADATA_PREFIX`` in ``METADATA_BUCKET``.
To upload new data:

```bash
aws s3 sync data/accounts s3://$DATA_BUCKET/accounts/
```

Uploading requires IAM permissions matching the above ``s3:PutObject`` rules.

### Bucket layout

The S3 bucket mirrors the previous ``data/`` directory:

```
accounts/
cache/
events/
instruments/
metrics/
prices/
timeseries/
transactions/
alert_thresholds.json
jpm.json
scaling_overrides.json
skipped_tickers.log
virtual_portfolios/
```

## Tests

Run Python and frontend test suites with:

```bash
pytest
cd frontend && npm test
```

Some API tests load sample account data from `config.accounts_root` (defaulting
to `data/accounts`). If this directory is absent, the tests are skipped.

The `PY_COV_MIN` environment variable lets you enforce a minimum coverage
percentage during `pytest` runs. Use it together with `PYTEST_ADDOPTS` to pass
the desired threshold to `pytest`:

```bash
PY_COV_MIN=80 PYTEST_ADDOPTS="--cov-fail-under=$PY_COV_MIN" pytest
```

## Error summary helper

An optional `error_summary` section in `config.yaml` stores settings for the
`run_with_error_summary.py` utility. When the field is missing the backend falls
back to an empty mapping so the script can still be used with explicit
arguments. You can capture error lines by running the helper which writes them
to `error_summary.log`. Optionally set a default command in
`config.yaml` under `error_summary.default_command` so the script can run
without CLI arguments:

```yaml
error_summary:
  default_command: ["pytest"]
```

Running `python run_with_error_summary.py` with no arguments will then use the
configured default.

```bash
# example
python run_with_error_summary.py pytest
```


## Trading Agent
Retrieve trade signals through the API:

```bash
curl http://localhost:8000/trading-agent/signals
```

In production, the `price_refresh` Lambda can invoke the agent after updating
prices.

## Deploy to AWS

The project includes an AWS CDK stack that provisions an S3 bucket and
CloudFront distribution for the frontend. To deploy the site:

```bash
# build the frontend assets first
cd frontend
npm install
npm run build
cd ..

# deploy the static site stack only
cd cdk
cdk bootstrap   # only required once per AWS account/region
DEPLOY_BACKEND=false cdk deploy StaticSiteStack

# or include the backend Lambda stack
DEPLOY_BACKEND=true cdk deploy BackendLambdaStack StaticSiteStack
# equivalently: cdk deploy BackendLambdaStack StaticSiteStack -c deploy_backend=true
```

The bucket remains private and CloudFront uses an origin access identity
with Price Class 100 to minimise cost while serving the content over HTTPS.

### Backend data bucket

Runtime portfolio data lives in a separate S3 bucket referenced by the
`DATA_BUCKET` environment variable. Files are stored under the `accounts/`
prefix:

- `accounts/<owner>/trades.csv`
- `accounts/<owner>/<account>.json`
- `accounts/<owner>/person.json`
- Instrument metadata files under `METADATA_PREFIX` (default `instruments/`) in the bucket specified by `METADATA_BUCKET`.

Lambdas that read portfolio information require `s3:GetObject` permission for
these paths. A minimal IAM policy statement is:

```json
{
  "Effect": "Allow",
  "Action": ["s3:GetObject"],
  "Resource": "arn:aws:s3:::YOUR_DATA_BUCKET/accounts/*"
}
```

### GitHub Actions Deployment

The CI workflow in `.github/workflows/deploy-lambda.yml` uses GitHub's
OpenID Connect (OIDC) provider to assume an IAM role at deploy time. To
enable this:

1. Create an IAM role with permissions to deploy the CDK stack.
2. Add a trust policy that allows the GitHub OIDC provider to assume the
   role. A minimal example is:

   ```json
   {
     "Version": "2012-10-17",
     "Statement": [
       {
         "Effect": "Allow",
         "Principal": {"Federated": "arn:aws:iam::YOUR_ACCOUNT_ID:oidc-provider/token.actions.githubusercontent.com"},
         "Action": "sts:AssumeRoleWithWebIdentity",
         "Condition": {
           "StringEquals": {
             "token.actions.githubusercontent.com:sub": "repo:YOUR_ORG/YOUR_REPO:ref:refs/heads/main"
           }
         }
       }
     ]
   }
   ```
3. Store the role ARN in the repository as the `AWS_ROLE_TO_ASSUME` secret
   and set `AWS_REGION` as needed.

Remove any long-term `AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID` and `AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY`
secrets, as they are no longer required.


## 🎬 Generating the Overview Video

Install the video dependencies first. The `requirements-dev.txt` file includes
`moviepy` and `gTTS`:

```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt -r requirements-dev.txt
```

Save an image named `presenter.png` in the `scripts` directory, then run:

```bash
python scripts/make_allotmint_video.py
```

The script will produce `allotmint_video.mp4` in the repository root.

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License. See [LICENSE](LICENSE) for details.
